So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss Beijing in action.
So this is the moment which we have been waiting for in this lecture video.
We will going to discuss an end to an example which demonstrate the concept of Beijing.
So in our example, consider the following configuration of the system, the size of the virtual space
of the process.
Let us suppose it the 16 bytes.
Right.
It means that in address and space of a process, there can be 16 Whelchel addresses and to represent
16 virtual addresses, you need four bits.
It means that the size of the actual address that is generated by C.P.U during the course of execution
of a program is offered bits in size.
Next, let us assume that the size of virtual page is four bytes.
Now, since the size of a virtual page is four bytes, the virtual address space of a process will be
fragmented into four virtual pages for virtual pages because 16 divided by four with 16 is the size
of process letters of space and four is the size of a virtual page.
It means that virtual the space of the process will be fragmented into four virtual pages.
Now let us assume that the size of the main memory is 32 bytes.
So diagram on the right hand side represents the main memory.
Now, since the watch on page size is equal to frame size, therefore the main memory will be fragmented
into it seems like it frames the size of the main memory divided by the size of the frame.
Which is it?
So the main memory will be fragmented into eight frames.
Now, going forward, since the virtual space of the process is fragmented into four pages, it means
that number of bits required to represent a virtual page uniquely is too right because to restore the
power to will give you four.
And finally, number of books required to represent an address within a virtual page uniquely is two
bits like two, because the size of the virtual page is four bytes.
It means that in one virtual page there will going to be four bytes and everybody has an address.
Therefore, you need to buy it's two to uniquely identify a bite within a virtual page.
So I hope you understand all these calculations and assumptions.
Now, with this configuration of the system in place now, let us demonstrate how robust Beijing rules.
Now, let us suppose that your program is executing now during the course of execution of a program,
we already know that CPR generates addresses to perform, read and write operation in physical memory.
So let us suppose that, for example, seepage and breaks the will address nine.
Right.
Now, the binary representation of Whelchel address nine is one zero zero one, right?
Now you can see that the binary representation of the virtual address has been split up into two parts,
and each part comprises of two bits, right?
Little bits, because number of bricks required to represent a virtual page uniquely is to bits and
number of bits required to represent an address within a virtual page.
Uniquely is again to bits.
Therefore, virtual address that is generated by the CPU is decomposed into two parts and each part
is two bits long.
Now let us suppose that for the process in execution, the following is the patient stable.
So you can see that a process has four virtual pages is No.
Zero base number one and two and three.
Corresponding to this virtual page, you have a physical page, right?
And each of these physical page is loaded into corresponding frame number in the main memory.
So you can see, for example, that the physical page one is loaded in frame number five.
That is in this frame.
Right.
Similarly, physical page number two is loaded in frame number one.
That is in this frame.
Right.
Now, we already know that the virtual address has been split it up or decomposed into two parts, the
first part is actually used to uniquely identify the virtual page number in the process, which will
address the space.
So the decimal equivalent of the first part is to write.
So it maps to the second virtual page in the process, virtual table.
Now, what should page number two has a mapping with physical page number two as per the page table.
And we know that as part of a stable physical page, number two is loaded in frame number one.
Right.
So the output of looking up into this base table, using two as a key is frame number one.
So this is the output of looking up into the peace table, using the first two bits of the virtual address
as a key into the peace table.
So now we have located the frame number one in the main memory.
Now, the question is that which by number within this frame we are trying to access.
So now here is the rule of the second decomposed part of about trilateralists now the decimal equivalent
of the second decomposed part is wrong.
And we know that the second part of the Wortzel address is nothing, but it is an offset within a virtual
page.
So it means that in a frame, everyone starting with the first bite at an offset, you will end up with
the physical address, five of main memory.
So please note that these numbers, which are written on the left side of the physical memory, are
actually physical addresses which identify a location of a bite in a physical memory.
So you can see that after adding the offset value to the starting address of frame F one, we end up
getting the physical address five.
So it simply means that logical address nine, that is this ad draws maps to a physical address, five
in physical memory.
So once the Watchem address is successfully mapped to a corresponding physical address in the main memory,
KPL then performs the Reed all right operation as the instruction at physical address five.
So you can see that the concept of paging is very simple and easy to understand.
So let me summarize what we have done so far.
In the first step.
CPR generates the virtual address and decompose the virtual address into two parts.
Right, using first part of the virtual address, locate the frame number of physical memory into which
the physical page is loaded using second part of the virtual address.
Mind the offset value, right.
And then add this offset value to the starting address of the frame, which was TEITELMAN and step number
two.
So we can see that the aging process involves these folding four steps.
And the end result of the paging is that that the virtual address that is generated by the CPU has been
successfully mapped to some physical address of random access memory.
And we already know that it is ramp our physical memory which actually stores the data.
So it means that from the process perspective, the process performs return right operation on the Virtual
Atlas nine right process always believes that it has 16 bytes of memory available to it and to be used.
Why 16 bytes, because from a process perspective, the size of the virtual space of the process is
16 bytes process is not even aware that there is something called physical memory and physical addresses.
It is the packaging that is playing its role and successfully map the virtual address that is generated
by the process to some physical address on physical memory.
From the process perspective, process always believes that it is performing.
Read and write operation on some address was nine, but in reality, the reason the operation is being
performed on physical address five on physical memory.
So you can see that paging actually creates an illusion for a process.
So if the process, for example, involves the operation star and why past nine here and pass hell?
Here, followed by Ford, which is the length of the string, it means that this string hell will be
written in the physical memory in this way h e l l right.
Because the watcher let those nine maps to the physical address, five in the main memory.
And starting from this address, we are actually writing for byte of string, which is at Alal.
So you can see that and the physical memory hell will be written in this manner.
We already know that each character occupies one byte.
So, guys, going forward, if you don't reach the logical address six, then this logical address six
will map to the physical address, 22 in main memory.
Similarly logical address 13 will map to the physical evidence.
Nine logical ABDUS 15 will map to the physical abuse 11 and logical address three will map to the physical
address 15 in memory.
Now you already know the steps, how Beijing works.
Therefore, I request you to actually verify whether these results are correct or not.